---
layout: docs
title: Seam
index: 1
---

h1. Seam

h2. Introduction

Seam 3 is very modular because it's a set of CDI extensions. You don't have (and shouldn't) pull in everything of Seam 3 just because you need small parts of it. Instead you pull in one module at a time.

Each module comes with some additional Maven dependencies and some configuration file changes. Forge helps you setting this up automatically. This page describes the Seam related plugins.

h2. Seam Persistence

"Seam Persistence":http://seamframework.org/Seam3/PersistenceModule makes working with JPA easier and brings declarative transaction management to plain beans (no EJB required). You can watch "this video":http://vimeo.com/24215263 for more details. 

h3. Seam Managed Persistence Context

If you're using Seam outside of a Java EE environment, you can't rely upon the container to manage the persistence context lifecycle for you. Even if you are in an EE environment, you might have a complex application with many loosely coupled components that collaborate together in the scope of a single conversation, and in this case you might find that propagation of the persistence context between component is tricky and error-prone. Another example is using lazy loading on JSF pages.

In either case, you'll need to use a managed persistence context (for JPA) or a managed session (for Hibernate) in your components. A Seam-managed persistence context is just a built-in Seam component that manages an instance of EntityManager or Session in the conversation (or any other) context. You can inject it with @Inject.

You can set up the Seam Managed Persistence context using Forge:

bc(command). seam-persistence install-managed-persistence-context

p. The Seam Persistence Maven dependencies are added and and a new class that acts as the Persistence Unit Producer is generated.

Now inject the managed Persistence Context in your code:

bc(prettyprint linenum).. @Inject EntityManager entityManager;

p. Now try lazy loading on a JSF page and see that it magically works!

h3. Declarative transactions

This Seam Persistence feature brings EJB 3 style declarative transactions to plain beans. This even works outside of a Java EE container where EJB is not available at all.

To use Transaction Management you need some configuration in beans.xml, Forge will add that for you. Simply type:

bc(command). seam-persistence enable-declarative-tx

p. Now you can use declarative TX management.

bc(prettyprint linenum).. @TransactionAttribute /*Defaults to TransactionAttributeType.REQUIRED */
public class TransactionaBean {
   public void doWork() {
   }

   @TransactionAttributeType(TransactionAttributeType.SUPPORTED)
   public void doMoreWork() {

   }
}
