---
layout: news
title: Forge 2.0.0.Alpha13 (Lucky Thirteen) Released
author: Lincoln Baxter, III, George Gastaldi
tags: [ website, announcement ]
---

h1. *JBoss Forge 2.0.0.Alpha13* is now available!

We are pleased to announce the release of "Lucky Thirteen", a Forge Runtime that features a streamlined programming model for Addon developers (no more @Exported annotation,) as well as a wide array of new Commands for developing Java EE applications.

<ul><li>Try out Forge 2 in Eclipse via our <a href="http://download.jboss.org/jbosstools/builds/staging/jbosstools-forge_master/all/repo/">Update Site</a></li>
<li>Use Forge 2 in your CLI / Terminal by downloading and installing the <a href="https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/artifact/maven/redirect?r=releases&g=org.jboss.forge&a=forge-distribution&v=2.0.0.Alpha13&e=zip">Alpha13 release</a>. You can <a href="https://github.com/forge/core#get-started-with-the-command-line-tools">learn how to run the downloaded installation</a> via our docs.</li>
</ul>

h2. Resource Transactions and Resource Change Monitoring

There are a lot of exciting features (as you can see by the release notes below); however, there are some outstanding features that we are proud to present. The first of which are resource transactions and monitoring.

* Resource Transactions:

If you are familiar with UserTransaction in Java EE applications, this should feel pretty comfortable.

<code>
ResourceTransaction transaction = factory.getTransaction();
try {
   // Starts the transaction
   transaction.begin();
   
   FileResource<?> resource = factory.create(...);
   // The file won't be updated until commit is performed
   resource.setContents("Hello World");      
   
   String contents = resource.getContents(); // Returns "Hello World"
   
   FileResource<?> anotherResource = factory.create(...);
   // The file won't be deleted until commit is performed
   anotherResource.delete();
   
   FileResource<?> newResource = factory.create(...);
   // The file won't be created until commit is performed
   newResource.createNewFile();
   
   transaction.commit();
} catch (Exception e){
    // Discard all changes since the beginning of this transaction 
    transaction.rollback();
}
</code>

Additionally, transactions support change-set inspection, so you can compare file contents before deciding whether or not a given transaction should be committed or rolled back:

<code>
   ...
   Collection<ResourceEvent> changeSet = transaction.getChangeSet();
   ...   
   transaction.commit();
</code>

Following the example above, this change set contains the following entries:

<code>
Collection [
    ResourceCreated: <FileResource<?>>, 
    ResourceModified: <DirectoryResource>, 
    ResourceModified: <FileResource<?>>, 
    ResourceDeleted: <FileResource<?>>, 
    ResourceCreated: <FileResource<?>>
]
</code>

* Resource Monitors:

<code>
@Inject 
private ResourceFactory factory;
...
Resource<?> resource = factory.create(...);
ResourceMonitor monitor = factory.monitor(resource);
monitor.addResourceListener(new ResourceListener() {
    @Override
    public void processEvent(ResourceEvent evt) {
        ...
    }
});
</code>
Once a monitor is no longer needed, it must be manually disposed of by calling the cancel() method:

<code> 
monitor.cancel();
</code>

h3. @CommandScoped support:

You may now use the @CommandScoped annotation to share data between pages in UIWizard implementations. No more context attribute passing!



h2. Release Notes - Check out all the new stuff!
    
h3. Bug

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1192'>FORGE-1192</a>] -         Ill behaved addons can screw up the command popup in Eclipse
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1203'>FORGE-1203</a>] -         Furnace CDI is unable to create proxies for services that are backed by Weld proxies (@ApplicationScoped, etc)
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1206'>FORGE-1206</a>] -         Imported&lt;?&gt;.get() has a different behavior compared to iterator()
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1223'>FORGE-1223</a>] -         CheckboxTableControlBuilder does not properly initialize data collection when default values are set
</li>
</ul>
                
h3. Enhancement

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-757'>FORGE-757</a>] -         Forge tests should delete the created folders
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1196'>FORGE-1196</a>] -         Rename flag forge.compatibility.IDE to forge.standalone
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1239'>FORGE-1239</a>] -         UISelectOne and UISelectMany components could have dynamic value choices
</li>
</ul>
        
h3. Feature Request

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-220'>FORGE-220</a>] -         Forge should listen to filesystem changes on the system and publish events for plugins to observe 
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-801'>FORGE-801</a>] -         Support for Transactional Resources 
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-846'>FORGE-846</a>] -         Create a template processor addon
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1193'>FORGE-1193</a>] -         Eclipse plugin doesn&#39;t handle subflows correctly
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1194'>FORGE-1194</a>] -         Support addition of warnings to a validation context
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1195'>FORGE-1195</a>] -         Support addition of information messages to a validation context
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1197'>FORGE-1197</a>] -         Eclipse plugin should render a Spinner component for Number types
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1198'>FORGE-1198</a>] -         UIValidationContext should reference the current input being validated
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1200'>FORGE-1200</a>] -         Add A@Column(length) on Entity attributes of type String 
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1202'>FORGE-1202</a>] -         Furnace Maven plugin should allow generation of the full addon dependency graph 
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1205'>FORGE-1205</a>] -         Migrate CommandScoped to Forge 2
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1217'>FORGE-1217</a>] -         UIProvider should provide a isGUI() method
</li>
</ul>
                                
h3. Task

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1111'>FORGE-1111</a>] -         Write a test to ensure that furnace fails deployment if multiple containers are specified
</li>
</ul>
                
h3. Sub-task

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1171'>FORGE-1171</a>] -         Port the JMS commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1174'>FORGE-1174</a>] -         Port the JSTL commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1175'>FORGE-1175</a>] -         Port the JTA commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1176'>FORGE-1176</a>] -         Port the JAX-RS (REST) commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1177'>FORGE-1177</a>] -         Port the Servlet commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1178'>FORGE-1178</a>] -         Port the JAX-WS (SOAP) commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1179'>FORGE-1179</a>] -         Port the Bean validation commands
</li>
</ul>
    


