---
layout: news
title: Forge 1.4.1.Final Released
author: Lincoln Baxter, III, George Gastaldi
tags: [ website, announcement ]
---

h1. *JBoss Forge 1.4.1.Final* is now available! 

It's a great day for progress - Going forward, we're putting Forge 1.x into maintenance mode. This means that new features will target Forge 2.x; only bug-fixes will be accepted for the 1.x stream.  The next JBoss Forge generation (Forge 2.0.0.Final) is due in November, and we're working really hard on making it happen. Stay in the loop by checking out our <a href='https://github.com/forge/core#readme'>Forge 2 development guide</a>!

h2. Release Notes
<h2>        Bug
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1030'>FORGE-1030</a>] -         Support multi-module Forge plugins
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1133'>FORGE-1133</a>] -         Error and exception handling for Maven dependency resolution does not warn of unresolved dependencies
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1134'>FORGE-1134</a>] -         Forge fails to resolve dependencies in password protected Maven repositories
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1135'>FORGE-1135</a>] -         ServletFacetImpl overrides isInstalled of BaseJavaEEFacet but doesnt call super.isInstalled
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1142'>FORGE-1142</a>] -         beans new-bean broken in Windows cmd
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1147'>FORGE-1147</a>] -         Java parser does not handle package-info creation.
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1163'>FORGE-1163</a>] -         No @XmlRootElement on Entities
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1166'>FORGE-1166</a>] -         Servlet javax.ws.rs.core.Application not defined in web.xml
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1191'>FORGE-1191</a>] -         Template title has wrong EL
</li>
</ul>
                
<h2>        Enhancement
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1138'>FORGE-1138</a>] -         &quot;forge update&quot; should be disabled in the IDE (using -Pforge.compatability.ide or similar)
</li>
</ul>
        
<h2>        Feature Request
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1006'>FORGE-1006</a>] -         Provide a command to generate equals and hashcode implementations considering all suitable fields in the JPA entity
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1200'>FORGE-1200</a>] -         Add A@Column(length) on Entity attributes of type String 
</li>
</ul>


p. <a href='#' onclick="_gaq.push(['_trackEvent', 'Downloads', '1.4.1.Final']);document.location.href='https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/artifact/maven/redirect?r=releases&g=org.jboss.forge&a=forge-distribution&v=1.4.1.Final&e=zip';return false;">Grab it</a> while is hot and amaze everyone with this new version!

p. Happy Forging and we welcome your feedback!

p. _-The Forge Team_

