---
layout: news
title: Forge 1.3.1.Final Released
author: George Gastaldi
tags: [ website, announcement ]
---

h1. *JBoss Forge 1.3.1.Final* is now available for download! Check out the release notes below and see why Forge IS the best JavaEE development tool. Period.

h2. Release Notes

<h2>        Bug
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-907'>FORGE-907</a>] -         Project finalName is expected in a Maven project during scaffold setup
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-915'>FORGE-915</a>] -         Faces scaffold should use the server timezone instead of UTC for date and time fields
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-917'>FORGE-917</a>] -         Faces scaffolding omits fields in the create/edit/search views when they do not have setter methods
</li>
</ul>

<h2>        Enhancement
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-929'>FORGE-929</a>] -         Validate when a facet is injecting a Project
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-931'>FORGE-931</a>] -         rest endpoint-from-entity adds unnecessary imports to generated rest resources
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-943'>FORGE-943</a>] -         When Forge encounter a maven project try to display some info of the project befure user start execute command
</li>
</ul>

<h2>        Feature Request
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-811'>FORGE-811</a>] -         MavenPlugin: Add maven plugin
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-848'>FORGE-848</a>] -         Forge should support a @CommandScoped annotation
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-953'>FORGE-953</a>] -         validation setup should default to JAVA_EE, not hibernate
</li>
</ul>

<h2>        Task
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-340'>FORGE-340</a>] -         Change default plugin checkout location to use the .forge/plugins-sources directory
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-583'>FORGE-583</a>] -         Include Forge JavaDoc in Distribution download.
</li>
</ul>


p. <a href='#' onclick="_gaq.push(['_trackEvent', 'Downloads', '1.3.1.Final']);document.location.href='https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/artifact/maven/redirect?r=releases&g=org.jboss.forge&a=forge-distribution&v=1.3.1.Final&e=zip';return false;">Grab it</a> while is hot and amaze everyone with this new version!

p. Happy Forging and we welcome your feedback!

p. _-The Forge Team_

