---
layout: news
title: Forge 2.2.0.Final (Goldsmith) Released
author: George Gastaldi, Lincoln Baxter, III, Vineet Reynolds
tags: [ website, announcement ]
---

h1. *JBoss Forge 2.2.0.Final* is now available!

The Forge Team is proud to announce that JBoss Forge 2.2.0.Final is now available! This is the best release so far.

h1. What’s new and noteworthy?

<ul><li><strong>The Prompts are back in town</strong>: Required options are now prompted for you if you forgot to fill in a value.</li>
<li><strong>BOM BOM BOM</strong>: Forge 2 now provides a forge-bom module for usage with other addons.</li>
<li><strong>Commands, Commands everywhere</strong>: New commands were introduced: project-has-dependencies, addon-setup-dependencies, constraint-new-annotation, constraint-new-group.</li>
<li><strong>JSON Addon</strong>: Forge 2 addons now support parsing of JSON data using the <a href="https://jsonp.java.net/">JSR 353 - Java API for JSON Processing</a></li>
<li><strong>Changes to the Scaffolding provider APIs and SPIs</strong>: Scaffolding providers now have control over the content of the dialogs required by them. Dialogs to setup Forge Facets can now be aggregated into a single dialog by the providers.</li>
</ul>

And much more! Check the issues below for more info.

Please let us know if you encounter any issues, or have any feedback on usability, at http://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE.

h2. Download Forge

<ul><li>Try out Forge 2 in Eclipse via our <a href="http://download.jboss.org/jbosstools/builds/staging/jbosstools-forge_master/all/repo/">Update Site</a></li>
<li>Use Forge 2 in your CLI / Terminal by downloading and installing the <a href="https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/artifact/maven/redirect?r=releases&g=org.jboss.forge&a=forge-distribution&v=2.2.0.Final&e=zip&c=offline">Final release</a>. You can <a href="https://github.com/forge/core#get-started-with-the-command-line-tools">learn how to run the downloaded installation</a> via our docs.</li>
</ul>

h2. Release Notes - 28 issues were resolved since the last release. Check out all the new stuff!
    
<h2>        Bug
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1623'>FORGE-1623</a>] -         Could not register resource monitor with track-changes
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1636'>FORGE-1636</a>] -         RmCommand same label for force and recousive
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1637'>FORGE-1637</a>] -         UIInput.hasDefaultValue() returns true if defaultValue is explicitly set to null
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1661'>FORGE-1661</a>] -         project-add-dependency ignore new scope
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1662'>FORGE-1662</a>] -         addon-build-and-install ignores --projectRoot argument
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1672'>FORGE-1672</a>] -         Creating a nested &quot;Forge Addon&quot; project can break parent POM &lt;modules&gt; definition
</li>
</ul>
        
<h2>        Component  Upgrade
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1611'>FORGE-1611</a>] -         Update to jboss-parent 14
</li>
</ul>
            
<h2>        Enhancement
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1632'>FORGE-1632</a>] -         Deprecate createResource methods in facets
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1633'>FORGE-1633</a>] -         Refactor the Resources API to support writeable Resources
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1666'>FORGE-1666</a>] -         Add BOM to new addon projects
</li>
</ul>
        
<h2>        Feature Request
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1461'>FORGE-1461</a>] -         &quot;project-new&quot; command fails while a ResourceTransaction is active
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1566'>FORGE-1566</a>] -         Create a command to setup addon dependencies
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1613'>FORGE-1613</a>] -         FileWatcher should handle missing folders after deleting a project root directory.
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1624'>FORGE-1624</a>] -         Create JPASetupWizard interface so JPA setup can be invoked from other plugins
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1625'>FORGE-1625</a>] -         Prevent UIWizards from being merged into dialogs
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1628'>FORGE-1628</a>] -         Support a facet for templates that are provided by the project
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1635'>FORGE-1635</a>] -         Shouldn&#39;t these commands be isProjectRequired() return true
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1651'>FORGE-1651</a>] -         Introduce a parser-json addon
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1660'>FORGE-1660</a>] -         Add project-has(-managed)-dependencies command
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1665'>FORGE-1665</a>] -         Create a BOM project located at forge/core/bom
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1668'>FORGE-1668</a>] -         Prompt for input of required unpopulated inputs
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1673'>FORGE-1673</a>] -         javax.sound.* classes cannot be resolved using ServiceLoader
</li>
</ul>
                                                        
<h2>        Sub-task
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1616'>FORGE-1616</a>] -         Command constraint-new-annotation to create a new constraint
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1619'>FORGE-1619</a>] -         Command constraint-new-group to create a new group
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1631'>FORGE-1631</a>] -         The output is out of sync and duplicated
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1655'>FORGE-1655</a>] -         parser-xml should use the simple container instead of CDI
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1657'>FORGE-1657</a>] -         Migrate facets addon to simple container
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1658'>FORGE-1658</a>] -         Migrate environment addon to simple container
</li>
</ul>
    

