---
layout: news
title: Forge 2.0.0.CR2 (Heat) Released
author: Lincoln Baxter, III, George Gastaldi
tags: [ website, announcement ]
---
h1. *JBoss Forge 2.0.0.CR2* is now available!

Almost there. The Forge Team proudly presents the release of JBoss Forge 2.0.0.CR2. Final should be released in just two more days. As we near the end of waiting, it's crucial that you give us your feedback, so please try CR2 (codename "Smolder") and let us know if you encounter any issues, or have any feedback on usability at http://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE

Thank you for your patience and for all of your help!

<ul><li>Try out Forge 2 in Eclipse via our <a href="http://download.jboss.org/jbosstools/builds/staging/jbosstools-forge_master/all/repo/">Update Site</a></li>
<li>Use Forge 2 in your CLI / Terminal by downloading and installing the <a href="https://repository.jboss.org/nexus/service/local/artifact/maven/redirect?r=releases&g=org.jboss.forge&a=forge-distribution&v=2.0.0.CR2&e=zip">CR2 release</a>. You can <a href="https://github.com/forge/core#get-started-with-the-command-line-tools">learn how to run the downloaded installation</a> via our docs.</li>
</ul>

h2. Release Notes - 30 issues were resolved in this release. Check out all the new stuff!

<h2>        Bug
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1427'>FORGE-1427</a>] -         Forge.bat throws error while attempting to install addons
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1459'>FORGE-1459</a>] -         WizardCommandController implementation is not invalidating stale entries
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1460'>FORGE-1460</a>] -         ClassCastException in CLAC
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1466'>FORGE-1466</a>] -         Multi-step wizards that pass validation cannot be &quot;finished&quot; on first page 
</li>
</ul>
                    
<h2>        Enhancement
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1475'>FORGE-1475</a>] -         InputType should be changed to String for better flexibility
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1476'>FORGE-1476</a>] -         Show/use default value for &quot;targetDirectory&quot; input of &quot;Scaffold&quot; wizards
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1492'>FORGE-1492</a>] -         Exported variables defined in shell should be available as attributes in UIContext
</li>
</ul>
        
<h2>        Feature Request
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1313'>FORGE-1313</a>] -         Support commands without UI
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1458'>FORGE-1458</a>] -         Implement missing java-new-annotation, java-new-class, and java-new-interface commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1464'>FORGE-1464</a>] -         Add a tooltip for target directory field in scaffold setup wizard
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1467'>FORGE-1467</a>] -         Display a &quot;Did you Mean?&quot; if a command does not exist 
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1494'>FORGE-1494</a>] -         New UI Command command throws NPE if no categories are specified.
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1502'>FORGE-1502</a>] -         ArrayIndexOutOfBounds with ls command
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1503'>FORGE-1503</a>] -         Need a method of specifying Categories on Annotation-based @Command API
</li>
</ul>
                                        
<h2>        Task
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1167'>FORGE-1167</a>] -         Port the Java EE Forge 1 commands to Forge 2
</li>
</ul>
                
<h2>        Sub-task
</h2>
<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1169'>FORGE-1169</a>] -         Port the CDI list-* commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1170'>FORGE-1170</a>] -         Port the EJB commands
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1173'>FORGE-1173</a>] -         Create Faces Command to set Project Stage
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1373'>FORGE-1373</a>] -         Native Aesh commands do not properly receive/resolve file paths
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1391'>FORGE-1391</a>] -         cd~~ not going back to the project root directory
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1432'>FORGE-1432</a>] -         run command is missing (and with it, scripting)
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1439'>FORGE-1439</a>] -         Verbose output is missing
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1440'>FORGE-1440</a>] -         TAB on export repeats ACCEPT_DEFAULTS
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1443'>FORGE-1443</a>] -         database.action property in persistence.xml should be drop-and-create
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1454'>FORGE-1454</a>] -         project-remove-dependency command is missing
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1455'>FORGE-1455</a>] -         project-add/remove(-managed)-dependency commands are missing
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1456'>FORGE-1456</a>] -         project-add/remove-repository command is missing
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1477'>FORGE-1477</a>] -         Being able to create mapped superclasses
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1484'>FORGE-1484</a>] -         --packageName should be renamed --targetPackage
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://issues.jboss.org/browse/FORGE-1493'>FORGE-1493</a>] -         Port the CDI new-* commands 
</li>
</ul>
    
   
