---
layout: docs
title: Important APIs
index: 12
---

h1. Important APIs

h2. Dependency Facet

A lot of Forge plugins make it easy to install extra libraries or frameworks to your project. In a Maven project this almost always result in adding new dependencies to your POM by copy pasting from some website. Make installing a framework easier by letting Forge do the POM work for the user.&nbsp;

h3. Creating dependencies

Dependencies can easily be created using the DependencyBuilder.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. Dependency dep = DependencyBuilder.create()
                      .setGroupId("my.group.id")
                      .setArtifactId("artifact-id")
                      .setVersion("1.0")
                      .setScopeType(ScopeType.PROVIDED);

p. The Dependency class is also input for many other Forge APIs.

h3. Prompting for versions

Of course it's a bad idea to couple your plugin directly to a specific version of the Maven dependency. To let the user choose a version Forge can list all available versions in the repository and prompt the user.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. DependencyFacet dependencyFacet = project.getFacet(DependencyFacet.class);
Dependency myDep = DependencyBuilder.create()
                .setGroupId("commons-httpclient")
                .setArtifactId("commons-httpclient");
List<Dependency> versions = dependencyFacet.resolveAvailableVersions(myDep);
Dependency dependency = shell.promptChoiceTyped("What version do you want to install?", versions);

p. You can also limit the versions using a range:

bc(prettyprint linenums).. dependencyFacet.resolveAvailableVersions("org.jboss.forge:example:[1.0.0,)");

dependencyFacet.resolveAvailableVersions("org.jboss.forge:example:(1.0.0,3.0.0]");

h3. Adding a dependency to the POM

Now that we have our dependency we can add it to the POM file. Maven supports different ways to work with plugin; you can either have _managed_ dependencies or _direct_ dependencies. Managed dependencies are an indirection where you specify the version of a dependency in the parent POM. For multi-module projects this is often preferred. Forge can do both however.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. dependencyFacet.addDirectDependency(Dependency dep);
dependencyFacet.addManagedDependency(Dependency dep);

h2. Maven Plugin Facet

A little more advanced is creating Maven Plugin configuration from your plugin.
First of all your plugin needs the forge-maven-api.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. <dependency>
    <groupId>org.jboss.forge</groupId>
    <artifactId>forge-maven-api</artifactId>
    <version>${forge.version}</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>

h3. Creating a plugin

Now let's start building the plugin. You use the MavenPluginBuilder for this. First of all a plugin needs a dependency (group id and artifact id).

bc(prettyprint linenums).. DependencyBuilder findbugsDependencyBuilder = DependencyBuilder.create()
              .setGroupId("org.codehaus.mojo")
              .setArtifactId("findbugs-maven-plugin");

MavenPluginBuilder findbugsPlugin = MavenPluginBuilder.create()
              .setDependency(findbugsDependency)

h3. Add a plugin to the POM

After building a plugin you can add it to the POM.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. MavenPluginFacet pluginFacet = project.getFacet(MavenPluginFacet.class);
pluginFacet.addPlugin(findbugsPlugin);

h3. Plugin Configuration

Most Maven plugins need some kind of configuration. Each configuration element is also a XML element in the POM and can potentialy be deeply nested. This makes the API a little tricky to work with, so try to make small steps.

So for example, let's add a xmlOutput configuration element to the plugin.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. MavenPluginBuilder findbugsPlugin = MavenPluginBuilder.create()
              .setDependency(findbugsDependency)
              .createConfiguration()
              .createConfigurationElement("xmlOutput")
              .setText("true").getParentPluginConfig().getOrigin();

h2. Resource Facet

The Resource Facet gives access to resources (files) in a project. It understands the Maven directory structure (e.g. src/test/resources).

bc(prettyprint linenums).. FileResource<?> resource = (FileResource<?>) resources.getTestResourceFolder().getChild("example.xml");

resource.setContents("new string");

h2. XML parsing and generation

Many plugins will have to read/write XML files (e.g. to generate configuration files). Forge has a convenient XML API.

bc(prettyprint linenums).. Node xml = XMLParser.parse(resource.getResourceInputStream());
Node config = xml.getOrCreate("someelement");
config.createChild("sub").createChild("property@name=test").text("hello");

resource.setContents(XMLParser.toXMLString(xml));

p. This will result in the following XML:

bc(prettyprint linenums).. <someelement>
  <sub>
     <property name="test">hello</property>
  </sub>
</someelement>

h2. Code templates